index.md, before:

---
title: Introduction to Spine EPS Tracker
keywords: homepage
tags: [getting_started]
sidebar: overview_sidebar
permalink: index.html
toc: true
summary: A brief introduction to getting started.
---

## Introduction ##

An introduction to provide users of the EPS Prescription Tracker with the information required to utilise the service. It is provided in lieu of an update to the External Interface Speciation. Spine2 is planning to provide a new EIS for all future messaging although at this stage such an artefact is not warranted for the Prescription Tracker.

## Purpose ##

The Prescription Tracker service provides a read only interface to obtain information about a patient’s prescriptions. It is written as a proprietary interface as defined in the following document. The tracker utilises a synchronous request / response pattern. It is synchronous with respect to HTTP connections which means that only a single HTTP connection is required to perform a complete request. Future interfaces on Spine2 are will tend towards this simple pattern wherever possible with the intention of eventually removing the need for asynchronous ebXML communications.

The prescription tracker provides a REST interface with two queries – prescription search and prescription retrieve - allowing querying to take place utilising a simple syntax. Both queries utilise a GET request which is made to the service and which returns a json result.

Commit message:

creating swagger for clinical view

index.md, after:

---
title: Introduction to Spine EPS Tracker
keywords: homepage
tags: [getting_started]
sidebar: overview_sidebar
permalink: index.html
toc: true
summary: A brief introduction to getting started.
---

## Introduction ##

An introduction to provide implementers of the EPS Prescription Tracker API with the information required to develop against the service.

## Purpose ##

The Prescription Tracker service provides a read only interface to obtain information about a patient’s prescriptions. It is written as a proprietary interface, though this is expected to be available as a set of FHIR resources in a future iteration. The tracker utilises a synchronous request / response pattern. It is synchronous with respect to HTTP connections which means that only a single HTTP connection is required to perform a complete request.

The prescription tracker provides a RESTful-style interface. Two resource types are available - a 'bare' prescription resource containing only non-sensitive information intended to show status and location information, and a fully detailed prescription resource including the clinical content of the prescription. All queries use a GET request returning a json response. All requests are idempotent in that they do not affect the status of prescriptions.
